.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007 Hexago Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  For license information refer to CLIENT-LICENSE.TXT
.\"
.\" $Id: gw6c.conf.5,v 1.11 2007/11/28 17:27:08 cnepveu Exp $
.\"
.Th Tunnel Setup Protocol client: File formats manual
.Dd May 7, 2007
.Dt GW6C.CONF 5
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm gw6c.conf
.Nd Gateway6 Client Configuration File
.Sh SYNOPSIS
The Gateway6 Client
.Xr gw6c 8
is a client program which enables a host to query a tunnel server to establish
a tunnel between the host and the server using the TSP protocol. The gw6c 
configuration file contains information that is read by 
.Xr gw6c 8
for specific details regarding the server and the tunnel to be established.
.Pp
.Sh FILE FORMAT
This file is designed to be human readable and may be edited with any text
editor. The file consists of tokens and values, which are separated by the
equal sign. Each "Token=Value" pair must be on their own line.
.Pp
The different configuration directives(or options) are grouped in the following 
sections:
.Sh BASIC CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Sy userid
The userid is used for authentication with the server. The TSP protocol supports 
both anonymous and authenticated tunnels. Refer to the server policies for 
supported modes and related Services, as well as for how to register your user 
name. The syntax to use is given below:
.Pp
userid=user_name
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY if you are using an authenticated tunnel. Leave empty
if you are using anonymous access.
.It Sy passwd
passwd=your_password
.Pp
Leave empty if you are using anonymous access.
.It Sy server
Name and port number of the tunnel server. This variable is used to specify the
Gateway6 server to be queried. An IPv4 or IPv6 address or FQDN (Fully Qualified
Domain Name) can be used. The port number is optional. The default TSP port is 3653.
.Pp
server=host[:port]
.Pp
server=broker.freenet6.net
.Pp
server=192.168.1.1:3653
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.
.It Sy auth_method
The tunnel negotiation authentication method. If you are using anonymous access,
enter `anonymous' here. Otherwise, choose one of the following authentication
methods: any|digest-md5|passdss-3des-1|plain
.Pp
.Pa anonymous
sends no username or password.
.Pp
.Pa any 
is the preferred one. The most secure mechanism common to the client 
and the broker will be used.  
.Pp
.Pa digest-md5 
sends the username in clear text, but not the password.  
.Pp
.Pa passdss-3des-1
sends the username in clear text, but not the password.  
.Pp
.Pa plain 
sends both username and password in clear text.  
.Pp
Default: any
.El
.Sh ROUTER CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Sy host_type
Set the value of this directive to ‘router’ to configure the machine as a 
router. By doing so, you will be given a prefix to advertise on a local 
interface.
.Pp
host_type=host|router
.Pp
Default: host
.Pp
.It Sy prefixlen
prefixlen specifies the required prefix length for the Gateway6 Client
network. Valid values range from 0 to 64; however, values are usually between 
48 and 64.
.Pp
Default: 64
.Pp
.It Sy if_prefix
if_prefix is the name of the OS interface that will be configured
with the first /64 of the received prefix from the broker. The
router advertisement daemon is started to advertise this prefix
on the if_prefix interface.
.Pp
.It Sy dns_server
This directive specifies the DNS servers that should be used for reverse DNS 
delegation of the prefix allocated.
.Pp
Syntax is:
.Pp
dns_server=fqdn[:fqdn]...
.Pp
For example, to set ns1.example.net and ns2.example.net as authoritative DNS
servers for reverse DNS of the prefix, this line would be used in gw6c.conf:
.Pp
dns_server=ns1.example.net:ns2.example.net
.Pp
NOTE: Never use an IP address as a DNS server name.
.El
.Sh ADVANCED CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Sy tunnel_mode
The tunnel encapsulation mode. It can take the following values:
.Pp
.Pa v6anyv4
This mode lets the broker determine whether or not the Gateway6 Client is behind
a NAT. The broker will then inform the Gateway6 Client which tunnel mode to use:
v6v4 or v6udpv4.
.Pp
.Pa v6v4
Explicitly requests an IPv6-in-IPv4 tunnel.
.Pp
.Pa v6udpv4
Explicitly requests an IPv6-in-UDP-IPv4 tunnel (for clients behind a NAT).
This type of tunnel is supported under Linux, FreeBSD and Windows.
.Pp
.Pa v4v6
Explicitly requests an IPv4-in-IPv6 tunnel (for dual-stack transition mechanism).
.Pp
Default: v6anyv4
.It Sy auto_retry_connect
This directive is used when a keepalive timeout or similar error occurred,
resulting in a loss of connectivity with the tunnel endpoint. If you wish the
Gateway6 Client to re-establish connectivity with tunnel endpoint when such an
error occurs, set this variable to `yes'.
.Pp
auto_retry_connect=yes|no
.Pp
Default: yes
.It Sy retry_delay
The retry_delay directive is used to set the number of seconds to sleep before
reattempting to establish a tunnel with the Gateway6 server. It will retry until 
it succeeds, unless you have set the auto_retry_connect variable to `no'.
.Pp
Default: 30
.Pp
.It Sy keepalive 
keepalive indicates that this client will send keepalive packets to maintain
tunnel activity and detect inactive tunnels (if no response is received from the
server). This directive must be set to `yes' when using v6udpv4 tunnels to keep 
the NAT entry active.
.Pp
keepalive=yes|no
.Pp
Default: yes
.Pp
.It Sy keepalive_interval
The keepalive_interval is a suggestion from the Gateway6 Client to the
broker for the interval to wait between sending keepalive messages. The broker
may impose a different interval value to the client if the suggested value is 
too low.
.Pp
keepalive_interval=30
.Pp
Default: 30
.Pp
.It Sy if_tunnel_v6v4
The logical interface name that will be used for the configured tunnel (IPv6 over
IPv4). The syntax is:
.Pp
if_tunnel_v6v4=name
.Pp
Under *BSD: gif0
.Pp
Under Linux: sit0
.Pp
Under Windows: 2
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.
.It Sy if_tunnel_v6udpv4
The logical interface name that will be used for v6udpv4 tunnels (IPv6 over
UDPv4). The syntax is:
.Pp
if_tunnel_v6udpv4=name
.Pp
Under FreeBSD: tun1
.Pp
Under Linux: tun
.Pp
Under Windows: tunv6
.Pp
.It Sy if_tunnel_v4v6
The logical interface name that will be used for v4v6 tunnels (IPv4 over IPv6).
The syntax is:
.Pp
if_tunnel_v4v6=name
.It Sy gw6_dir
The directory where the Gateway6 Client program is installed. Binaries, manual
pages, this configuration file and templates are all located in this directory.
This variable may resemble the following:
.Pp
gw6_dir=/usr/local/gw6c
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.
.It Sy template
This directive indicates which configuration template must be used when 
configuring the tunnel. The configuration template is a script file, located in
the template directory of the package, that contains the system commands to be
executed for tunnel setup. The directives are passed to the script file as
environment variables. The template directive is normally set when the package
is built for the specific operating system. View the contents of the template 
directory to learn which ones are available. The template name must be the file 
name without the .sh or .cmd suffix.
.Pp 
template=linux
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.
.It Sy proxy_client
The proxy_client directive indicates that this client acts as a TSP proxy for
a remote client tunnel endpoint machine. It is set to `yes' if the machine 
running the Gateway6 Client requests a tunnel for another machine. (e.g.: cisco 
template).  This directive must be used in conjunction with a static IPv4
address assigned to the client_v4 variable.
.Pp
NOTE: proxy_client=yes is incompatible with tunnel_mode=v6udpv4
.Pp
Default: no
.It Sy client_v4
The IPv4 address of the client tunnel endpoint. If the host has more than one
IPv4 address, it is recommended to manually set this variable with its local
IPv4 address as the value. If set to auto, it chooses the source IP address used 
when communicating with the server. This variable may resemble the following:
.Pp
client_v4=auto|a.b.c.d
.Pp
Default: auto
.It Sy client_v6
This directive is similar te client_v4, except that this one is for users that 
have enabled IPv4 in IPv6 encapsulation (i.e., DSTM).
.Pp
client_v6=auto|XX:XX::XX:XX
.Pp
Default: auto
.It Sy broker_list
The 'broker_list' directive specifies the name of the file where the broker 
list received during broker redirection will be saved.
.Pp
Default: tsp-broker-list.txt
.It Sy last_server
The 'last_server' directive specifies the name of the file
where the address of the last broker to which a connection
was successfully established will be saved.
.Pp
Default: tsp-last-server.txt
.It Sy always_use_same_server
The value of the 'always_use_same_server' directive determines whether the 
client should always try to connect to the broker specified by the 'last_server' 
directive (if any).
.Pp
Default: no
.El
.Sh LOGGING CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Sy log_file
This directive is used to specify the quantity of information that will be 
logged to the file. Values range inclusively from 0 (no logging) to 3 (full 
logging).
.Pp
Default: 0
.It Sy log_stderr
This directive is used to specify the quantity of information that will be 
logged to the standard error device. Values range inclusively from 0 (no 
logging) to 3 (full logging).
.Pp
Default: 1
.It Sy log_console
This directive is used to specify the quantity of information that will be
logged to the console. Values range inclusively from 0 (no logging) to 3 (full
logging).
.Pp
Default: 0
.It Sy log_syslog
This directive is used to specify the quantity of information that will be
logged to the syslog. Values range inclusively from 0 (no logging) to 3 (full
logging).
.Pp
Default: 0
.It Sy log_filename
When logging to file is requested via the 'log_file' directive, the name and 
path of the file to use may be specified using the 'log_filename' directive.
.Pp
log_filename=[/path/to/the/]file
.Pp
Default: gw6c.log
.Pp
.It Sy log_rotation
When logging to file is requested via the 'log_file' directive, log file 
rotation may be enabled using the 'log_rotation' directive.
.Pp
When enabled, the contents of the log file will be moved to a backup file just
before it reaches the maximum log file size specified via the 
`log_rotation_size' directive.
.Pp
The name of the backup file is the name of the original log file with 
`.<timestamp>' inserted before the file extension. If the file does not have 
an extension, `.<timestamp>' is appended to the name of the original log file. The
timestamp specifies when the rotation occurred.
.Pp
After the contents of the log file have been moved to the backup file, the 
original file is cleared, and logging resumes at the beginning of the file.
.Pp
log_rotation=yes|no
.Pp
Default: yes
.Pp
.It Sy log_rotation_size
The `log_rotation_size' directive specifies the maximum size a log file may 
reach before rotation occurs (if rotation has been enabled via the 
'log_rotation' directive).
.Pp
The value is expressed in kilobytes.
.Pp
log_rotation_size=16|32|128|1024
.Pp
Default value: 32
.Pp
.It Sy log_rotation_delete
The `log_rotation_delete' directive specifies that the log file will be recycled
on rotation. No backup log files will be kept. (if rotation has been enabled via 
the 'log_rotation' directive).
.Pp
log_rotation_delete=yes|no
.Pp
Default: no
.Pp
.It Sy syslog_facility
When logging to syslog is requested using the `log' directive, the facility to
use may be specified using the `syslog_facility' directive.
.Pp
Valid values are USER, and LOCAL[0-7].
.Pp
syslog_facility=FACILITY
.Pp
Default: USER
.Pp
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width <gw6_dir>/bin/gw6c.conf -compact
.It Pa <gw6_dir>/bin/gw6c.conf
.It Pa <gw6_dir>/bin/gw6c.conf.sample
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gw6c 8
.Rs
Freenet6 Web site: http://www.go6.net
.Pp
Hexago Web site: http://www.hexago.com
.Re
.\".Sh HISTORY
